# Extracellular processing of molecular gradients by eukaryotic cells can improve gradient detection accuracy

Here you can find data and files needed to generate plots for the paper.

Contents:

* __matlab__
    * MATLAB with COMSOL scripts that call COMSOL API and solve reaction-diffusion equations. Requires COMSOL v3.5 installed together with MATLAB (R2011a). Newer MATLAB and COMSOL will have compatibility issues.
    * `pde_flux_fem_struct.m`: MATLAB script that sets up COMSOL chemical reaction module with correct physics, subdomain and boundary conditions for numerical solving.
    *
* __data__
    * results from MATLAB with COMSOL in tab-delimited data form.
    * `model_parameters.txt`: all numerical model parameters. Can edit this using text editor or Excel.
    * `ci_dcdx_c0_from_experiments.txt`: the measured chemotaxis index (CI) for different combinations of gradients and average concentrations from previous experiments.
    * `matlab_output_pde_flux_k2_13300_s-1_Km_10_uM_fine_*.txt`: numerical results for Fixed PDE secretion flux model. Two files need to be merged since I ran it twice.
    * `matlab_output_pde_uniform_k2_13300_s-1_Km_10_uM.txt`: numerical results for Fixed PDE concentration model. I used this to compare to analytical results without a cell in the middle. It makes very little difference.
* __r__
    * R scripts for plotting output data from MATLAB. All scripts use `data/model_parameters.txt` to for numerical parameters. Required libraries: ggplot2, data.table, directlabels.
    * `fig*.R` scripts generate main text figures. Ocassionally there are some alignment issues with text that were fixed manually with Adobe Illustrator.
    * `include_*.R` are functions loaded into these scripts.
    * `si_ci_cost_minimization_van_haastert_reproduced.R` solves the cost minimization used to find CI(SNR) and also tries to reproduce van Haastert Postma data which seems wrong in their paper.
    * `si_pde_flux_*.R` generates figures for SI for Fixed PDE secretion flux model, where either mean concentration (c0) or the gradient (dcdx) is fixed.
    * ``
* __figures__
    * PDF of figures from R scripts
    * figures beginning with `si_` appear in the supplementary information.
* __latex__
    * `main_text.tex` and `supp_info.tex` files are the LaTeX files for the main text and the supplementary information. I generated PDFs from those using TexnicCenter 2 on PC.
    * `references.bib` contains the references for both main text and the SI in the BibTeX format.
    * `table_ci_snr_others.tex` is the LaTeX table version of the file `ci_dcdx_c0_from_experiments.txt` generated by the `r/si_export_ci_dcdx_c0_from_experiment_to_latex.R` script.
    * These require `revtex4-1` installed to generate the manuscript in Physical Review Letters format.
